---
layout: post
title: "₹2400 Cr brownfield expansion of textile plants across multiple locations"
categories: jekyll update
head: The secret behind Welspun's accelerated rate of project execution by 60% 
subhead: And setting a new benchmark for a new benchmark for the textile industry
logo: welspun.png
cover: welspun.jpg
company: Welspun India Limited
---

<h5 class="bkc bold">Major Challenge(s)</h5>
Emerging business needs, new and thin project management capacity, multiple locations, many interactions with
existing operations, space constraints, high load on procurement team

<p class="pullout compass m-ws-top"><span class="bkc f-1-25x">The target for senior management was to implement one of the biggest expansion plans in the industry over a span of 3 years.</span> The management had implemented around ₹1000 Crores of investment over 2 years and the business need demanded a significant improvement.
</p>

The project management team was newly formed and fresh recruitment was also in progress. In addition, part of the execution team was shared with operations. For the senior management team forward-looking visibility was a key requirement. The portfolio consisted of over 20 projects – requirements that emerged over 2 years

<h5 class="bkc bold">Solution Element(s)</h5>
Portfolio plan to drive execution, Full Kitting projects (for enforcing criteria for execution readiness), Driving
pro-active actions on forward-looking signals generated by Concerto

The following methodology and software was implemented in the project. The key differences that prior systems did not provide were:

<h6 class="bkc bold nm">2-tier (Focus-&-Finish) planning methodology</h6>
Simple and stable project plans

<h6 class="bkc bold nm">Rigorous Full Kitting practice</h6>
Concerto provided full visibility of FK readiness and management processes were put in place for driving closure of FK prior to key
phases in execution (Commencing civil works, equipment installation)

<h6 class="bkc bold nm">Forward-looking alerts</h6>
Leveraging the Focus-&-Finish plans, Concerto not only started highlighting the current areas requiring attention, but also upcoming
bottlenecks (in the respective project as well as entire portfolio), that allowed senior management to start taking pro-active actions to control the projects.

<h5 class="bkc bold">Results achieved by client</h5>

<p class="pullout check m-ws-top"><span class="bkc f-1-25x">A total of ₹ 2400 Crores worth of investment was implemented over 3 years at ₹ 800 Crores/ year and project throughput was increased by 60% over the first 2 years.</span>
This also meant that Welspun set a new benchmark in the textile industry. And across domains too, this was one of the largest expansion plans executed successfully.</p>