---
layout: post
title: "The reality of why infra projects always get delayed. It's not what you think. + Proven Solution"
categories: jekyll update
head: The reality of why infra projects always get delayed. 
subhead: It's not what you think + Proven solution.
logo: ntpc.png
cover: ntpc.jpg
company: NTPC Ltd
---


<h5 class="bkc bold">It's not just you, it's a pandemic.</h5>

Organizations across the world have spent billions of dollars on project management systems to
improve project delivery performance, but the improvements have been either paltry or in some
cases even deteriorating. Albeit these softwares score high on innovations and features, but
probably not built to address the RIGHT issue.

To establish the above premise let’s look at some staggering facts. According to Transparency Market Research, total spent on Project Management software stood at $4.33B in 2018 and
expected to reach $6.5B by 2026. At the other spectrum, for every $1 billion invested in projects,
$122 million was wasted due to lacking project performance reported by PMI.org.


<div class="callout dbbg">
	<p class="s wc"> The above two facts are the two worlds apart. It indicates that the very purpose of investing hugely in these systems was defeated. And mind you, in addition, organizations require an army of PMO personnel just to operate and maintain these systems. The PMO overhead cost has been rising consistently to manage these systems. All and all organizations have realized an abysmal ROI on this spending.
	</p>
</div>
So first let's address the elephant in the room. THE DATA. You might still be thinking of how can data be the culprit for project delays. In fact, the data has been termed as the ‘New Gold’ by many.
Hang on! Don’t jump the gun. We are getting there. Data is of no use if it doesn’t provide pinpointed
information. The information which is reliable and can be immediately acted on.

But the ground reality is the data available to different stakeholders in the project is subjective and requires
interpretation to arrive at any decision. Think about the ever-changing project dynamics.
Current project infrastructure is not adequate to support automatic flow of Information keeping Top
Management, PMO and Front Line Execution DISCONNECTED, always.

<h5 class="bkc bold">Where does the problem lie?</h5>
The new age project management systems set-out to solve the issues around project visibility and
improving the productivity of the project teams. But as it turned out, the whole world started
chasing the gold mine of more and more real-time data. 

Eventually, these systems had the sole purpose of consuming gazillions of data and furnishing piles of reports and busy dashboards (Think
about Project ERP Systems, Design and Engineering tools, Project planning and scheduling tools,
project tracking systems, drones etc.) And what followed:
1. Gigabytes of data scattered across multiple systems in project management infrastructure.
2. This data requires further analysis and interpretations to derive any information.
3. Interpretations are human dependent and vulnerable to biases and error.
4. <strong>This makes everyone involved in a project (Management, PMO, Front line) to have a
DISCONNECTED view on project performance and required actions.</strong>


<h5 class="bkc bold">And the result?:</h5>

1. All top management has are the subjective reports and busy dashboards, keeping them
blindsided to the truly critical issues in projects. They lack actionable information on where
to intervene
2. Front line is clueless on what to do and when to do

All this while the PMO overhead cost keeps rising just to operate these systems, co-ordinating
manually and a futile attempt to keep the data relevant.




<h6 class="bkc bold">The Solution</h6>
<h3 class="bkc bold">Concerto</h3>
<p class="bold bkc">Revolutionizing Project Deliver</p>
<p class="bold bkc">Depended on by NTPC, Tata Steel, L&T, Aarti industries and many others.</p>

We’re bringing ready-to-act information to projects. This means we focus on what needs to be done moving
forward. Not on what has already happened.
Our system provides ready-to-act alerts for executives and ready-to-act schedules for the frontline. It produces
better, faster decisions. And, it helps deliver more on time projects at lower costs.

At Realization, we learned in the trenches. On large, complex projects. We know firsthand exactly what executives
and frontline managers need to do to stay on track. Even amidst sprawling, difficult, always-changing conditions.
Our Smart Project Delivery System provides information that focuses on project teams and executives. To keep them
moving ahead on the right tasks; solving the right problems. No matter how large or complex the projects.

Our system has already helped more than 400 organizations create $6.5B of additional cash and profits. You no
longer need to accept the status quo.